in today's video we'll be going through
the 2011's american mystery thriller
film unknown spoilers ahead you have
been warned make sure to give this video
a thumbs up comment on what your
favorite part was and subscribe to our
channel for more the movie begins with a
man named martin harris and his wife liz
arriving in berlin they are visiting the
city for a biotechnology summit after
arriving at the hotel martin realizes
that he's left his briefcase at the
airport he leaves liz at the hotel and
quickly returns to the airport in a
different taxi without informing liz
before martin gets to inform his wife
liz about the briefcase through the
phone his taxi meets with an accident
and drives off the road falling into a
river did you know that filming the
movie in berlin proved very difficult as
the city was undergoing its coldest
winter in 20 years at the time
the crash knocks martin unconscious
while the female taxi driver quickly
breaks the window and gets out of the
sinking car while martin is still inside
she breaks the car's rear window and
pulls martin out medics quickly arrive
and resuscitate martin while the driver
flees the scene
martin wakes up in a hospital after
being in a coma for four days he
immediately starts asking for his wife
but he's told that no one has come
looking for him martin has lost bits and
pieces of his memories because of the
trauma he endured in the accident after
watching a news report on the television
about the biotech summit martin suddenly
recalls that he was supposed to be
attending the summit and immediately
leaves for the hotel at the hotel he
notices liz and tries to get close to
her but the hotel security stops him at
the door he explains that he's dr martin
and liz's husband after a lot of
insistence the hotel security escorts
him to liz when he meets her he explains
to her that he was in a coma for four
days but to his surprise liz refuses to
recognize him she then introduces
another man as dr martin harris and her
husband wow imagine getting your wife
that pissed off
martin is puzzled by the ordeal and gets
agitated the new dr martin asks the
security to escort the old martin away
the nerve not only is the impostor
stealing his wife but he's getting him
kicked out
martin is detained by the hotel and the
police are informed martin then tries to
prove his identity by contacting his
colleague named rodney cole but to no
avail the hotel security then checks
martin's university website but only to
find the new dr martin's picture further
disproving martin's claims police then
arrive and proceed to arrest him but
martin then apologizes to the hotel
security chief he shows him his doctor's
card and explains that he was involved
in a severe accident and perhaps lost
his memory the security chief decides to
let him off the hook and sends martin
off to the hospital where he was
admitted in a taxi however martin gets
out of the taxi after a few yards and
continues his investigation while trying
to contact his colleague rodney cole
through a pay phone he notices a car
watching him from a distance worried he
takes shelter in the subway but soon a
commuter starts briskly following him
martin starts running and gets on a
train managing to get away from the man
seemingly following him martin starts
writing down his schedule for memory on
a botany book that his father had once
gifted him the next day he locates his
female taxi driver named gina working at
a restaurant he asks her about the
accident but she refuses to talk to him
as she's hiding from her former boss
after crashing his taxi in the spree
river dejected martin thanks her for
saving his life and leaves he then
visits the office of professor leo
bressler for their scheduled meeting but
to his dismay he finds dr harris already
present there they both try to prove
their identity and correctly recall
extremely personal details of their
interaction with dr wrestler puzzling dr
bressler himself the new dr martin then
provides identification and a family
photo both of which have his face which
overwhelms martin and he passes out
martin again wakes up in the hospital
and finds himself being zip tied by a
man named smith the same man that was
following him in the subway just then
martin's nurse arrives and questions
smith but he swiftly kills her god death
penalty for a harmless question martin
then manages to steal the scissors from
the nurse's pocket he sets himself free
and manages to flee it seems that martin
has more lives than a cat does he then
seeks help from a private investigator
and a former stasi agent named ernst
jurgen he asks for his help to prove his
identity at jurgen's suggestion martin
tries to contact his female taxi driver
gina again it's revealed that gina is an
undocumented immigrant hiding both from
her boss and the police he empathizes
with her situation as an illegal
immigrant and offers her the expensive
watch that liz had given him gina agrees
to help him and lets him stay in her
place for the night meanwhile jurgen
researches martin and the biotechnology
summit discovering is to be attended by
prince chada of saudi arabia the prince
is finding a secret project headed by
bressler and has survived numerous
assassination attempts jurgen suspects
that the identity theft might be related
while martin takes a shower smith and
his associate named jones force into
gina's apartment and subdue her oh come
on can a guy even shower in peace now
hearing the commotion outside martin
quickly gets dressed and sneaks out of
the window he hides on the roof and
jones ventures out of the window looking
for him however jones climbs down the
stairs attached to the window and looks
for martin around the neighborhood with
jones outside martin re-enters the
apartment and attacks smith a struggle
follows smith eventually overpowers
martin but gina stabs smith with his own
injection and kills him gina learns that
smith had killed her friend biko before
getting to her apartment martin and gina
then quickly flee in biko's taxi but
jones spots them and follows them in his
car a hot pursuit follows jones blocks
their car's path and tries to crash them
into a street train martin manages to
overtake and escape but their car is
sent rolling while jones crashes into an
impact attenuator on the road all three
survive and set out on foot martin and
gina hide in a club and manage to get
away from jones gina angry slaps martin
for getting her friend biko killed and
making her already difficult life even
more difficult martin apologizes to her
and promises to make up for the mess he
has created he better because he has
brought nothing but trouble for the poor
girl martin eventually figures out the
code that liz had written in his botany
book liz had written a series of numbers
in his book numbers that correspond to
words found on specific pages of the
book the words were the names of two
flowers fairy lantern and california bay
at a meeting with jurgen martin recalls
that the saudi prince and bressler are
very close and shada is funding the
summit they're both progressives
bressler wants to end world hunger and
is researching new forms of crop
cultivation bressler offers open access
to his data to shada who realizes that
this country will need food long after
their oil resources are depleted the
saudi prince's progressiveness has also
made him a target of radical islamists
still the progressive prince has refused
to stop despite multiple assassination
attempts martin also recalls that prince
shada is supposed to join an intimate
cocktail party with bressler dr martin
and a few other guests before wrestler's
speech jurgen speculates that the
imposter dr martin could have stolen
martin's identity to get close to the
prince and assassinate him martin then
confronts liz alone at an art exhibition
while the other dr martin is busy at a
meeting martin tells liz to tell the
truth and please with her to come with
him liz tells him that she can't get out
as they will kill them both she reminds
martin that he left her alone at the
hotel because he forgot his briefcase at
the airport she tells him to find the
briefcase martin tries to ask her more
questions but liz then gives him a long
kiss instead and leaves yeah it's
hollywood meanwhile jurgen receives a
letter containing photographs of liz and
martin arriving together at the airport
from his contact corroborating martin's
story jurgen then receives a man
claiming to be rodney cole martin's
colleague at his office jurgen had
previously attempted to contact rodney
cole to ascertain the truth about the
real dr martin harris cole reveals that
he's in berlin to hear bressler's speech
and asks jurgen what trouble martin has
gotten into jurgen reveals as he pours
himself a cup of tea his findings of a
secret europe-based assassination unit
known as section 15. cole's expressions
begin to change and he unbuttons his
coat as jurgen continues that the
assassin group is second to none in
their planning and efficiency jurgen
then drinks his tea as cole asks him why
he didn't run away after receiving a
call from him jurgen answers that he
can't run from section 15 as he can
hardly walk cole asks jurgen every name
he contacted on behalf of martin but he
begins to collapse and eventually dies
jurgen died from the cyanide he had
mixed in his own drink he had already
deduced that cole is a former mercenary
and member of the section 15 group
knowing coal is there to interrogate and
kill him with no way of escape jurgen
committed suicide to protect harris mr
jurgen knew snitches get stitches
meanwhile martin retrieves his briefcase
from the airport he finds his passport
and pictures with liz in the case
according to his passport martin harris
was born on june 7th actor liam neeson's
birthday is also june 7th gina then
decides to part ways with him as martin
waits for liz at a restaurant moments
later while waiting for a taxi gina
notices martin being kidnapped by cole
and jones she follows their van in a
stolen taxi cole takes martin into an
abandoned building and reveals that
martin harris is just a cover name
created by harris himself to get into
the conference martin and liz both are
assassins of the section 15 group and
martin's head injury caused him to
believe the cover persona was real when
liz notified cole of the injury martin
harris was activated as his replacement
cole then orders jones to kill martin
when gina arrives in the taxi jones
starts shooting at gina and she loses
control of the car gina's taxi runs
jones over and rams cole's van pushing
the van and cole over the edge killing
him we all love a dramatic movie
sequence don't we martin then learns his
real identity from a hidden compartment
in his briefcase he is a canadian
citizen named sean williams trivia on
the close-up of the canadian passports
the surname is where the other name
should be and vice versa he recalls that
he arrived in berlin three months ago
and planted a bomb in prince shot his
suite to assassinate him martin is
dejected after learning his truth gina
convinces him that he can redeem himself
by thwarting the assassination and they
sneak into the hotel however they're
soon caught by the hotel security
meanwhile liz hacks into bressler's
laptop using the codes that she'd
written in martin's book to access
bressler's laptop and research file liz
copies wrestler's research into her
computer after stealing the research
worth billions of dollars liz and dr
martin then proceed to flee the party
martin desperately tries to warn the
hotel security chief about the
assassination attempt he proves himself
by showing his earlier visit to the
hotel after the security is convinced of
the bomb's presence they promptly
evacuate the hotel
seeing that their assassination attempt
has been foiled liz asks the other dr
martin to finish the target himself and
she returns to prince chad's hotel room
to defuse the now useless bomb to cover
her tracks this doesn't sound like such
a good idea liz seeing wrestler with his
two daughters lily and laurel also the
name of two flowering plants martin
realizes that the codes liz wrote in his
book were bressler's passwords he
figures out that section 15's main
target is not princhada but bressler who
has developed a genetically modified
breed of corn capable of surviving harsh
climates after stealing the research
from him the assassins wanted to kill
professor bressler prince shadow was
also supposed to be killed in the bomb
blast to make it seem that he was
targeted by extremists and professor
bressler was collateral damage to the
assassination plot martin then runs out
and confronts dr martin before he can
murder bressler a struggle follows
meanwhile liz tries to disarm the bomb
but fails and gets killed when it
explodes see i tried to warn her the
explosion knocks both men out martin
starts to recall the memories and skills
he learned as an assassin dr martin
attacks martin but martin surprises him
by giving it back to him equally good
however dr martin overpowers him and
chokes him martin then breaks a mirror
and kills dr martin with a piece of
glass the next day bresser and prince
shada freely give their new coin to the
world in their mutual effort to end
world hunger using additional fake
passports found in his briefcase martin
and gina leave berlin together as henry
and claudia taylor
thanks for watching make sure to like
the video if you enjoyed it and
subscribe to the channel to see more of
these movie summaries